# Introduction

**Google has been a phenomenally successful company.** As well as the success of Google Search and AdWords, Google has delivered many other stand-out products, including Google Maps, Google News, Google Translate, Google speech recognition, Chrome, and Android. Google has also greatly enhanced and scaled many products that were acquired by purchasing smaller companies, such as YouTube, and has made significant contributions to a wide variety of open-source projects. And Google has demonstrated some amazing products that are yet to launch, such as self-driving cars.

There are many reasons for Google’s success, including enlightened leadership, great people, a high hiring bar, and the financial strength that comes from successfully taking advantage of an early lead in a very rapidly growing market. **But one of these reasons is that Google has developed excellent software engineering practices, which have helped it to succeed.** These practices have evolved over time based on the accumulated and distilled wisdom of many of the most talented software engineers on the planet. We would like to share knowledge of our practices with the world, and to share some of the lessons that we have learned from our mistakes along the way.

**The aim of this paper is to catalogue and briefly describe Google’s key software engineering practices.** Other organizations and individuals can then compare and contrast these with their own software engineering practices, and consider whether to apply some of these practices themselves.

Many authors have written books or articles analyzing Google’s success and history. But most of those have dealt mainly with business, management, and culture; only a fraction of those have explored the software engineering side of things, and most explore only a single aspect; and none of them provide a brief written overview of software engineering practices at Google as a whole, as this paper aims to do.
